  Applications of String:

Plagiarism Checker: Strings can be used to find Plagiarism in codes, and contents in a very little amount of time using
 string matching algorithms. Using this the computer could easily tell us the percentage of code, and text written 
 by any two users matches by how much percent.
Encoding/Decoding(Cipher Text Generation): Strings can be used for encoding and decoding for the safe transfer of 
data from sender to receiver to make sure no one in the way of transmission gets to read your data as they could 
perform both active and passive attacks. The text you transfer as a message gets ciphered at the sender’s end and 
decoded at the receiver’s end.
Information Retrieval: String applications help us to retrieve information from unknown data sources( large datasets
 used as input) along with the help of string matching/retrieval module helps us to retrieve important information.
Improved Filters For The Approximate Suffix-Prefix Overlap Problem: Strings and its algorithms applications help us
 to provide improved Filters for the Approximate Suffix-Prefix Overlap Problem. The approximate suffix-prefix 
 overlap problem is to find all pairs of strings from a given set such that a prefix of one string is similar to a 
 suffix of the other.
Network communication: Strings are used to encode and decode data sent over networks, such as HTTP requests and 
responses.
File handling: Strings are used to manipulate file paths and names, and to read and write files.
Data analysis: Strings can be used to extract meaningful insights from large amounts of text data, such as natural 
language processing and sentiment analysis.

Memory Efficiency: Strings are usually stored in a contiguous block of memory, which makes them efficient to allocate
 and deallocate. This means that they can be used to represent large amounts of data without taking up too much 
 memory.

Real-Time Application of String:

Spam Detection: Strings can be used to serve as a spam detection system as the concept of string matching algorithm
 will be applied here. Spam (unwanted emails) could cause great financial loss. All the spam filters use the concept
  of string matching to identify and discard the spam.
Bioinformatics: Strings can be used in the field of Bioinformatics( DNA sequencing). String matching module can be
 used to solve issues or problems regarding genetic sequences and to find the patterns in DNA.
Intrusion Detection System: Strings can be used in intrusion detection systems. Packets that contain intrusion 
related keywords are found by applying string matching algorithms.
Search Engines: Strings can be used in many search engine techniques. Most of the data are available on the internet
in the form of textual data. Due to huge amount of uncategorized text data, it becomes really difficult to search
a particular content. Web search engines organize the data and to categorize the data string matching algorithms
are used.

